Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss applications of
pointers
So one important application of pointer is in Embedded devices
We all use a lot of embedded devices in our daily
life like fitness watch, cellphones, washing machine etc
So pointers are very useful in embedded programming
Let's see an example
We have a temperature sensing device
It uses a temperature sensor LM35 to sense the
environment
This sensor will take a fixed memory address to update
its status
Let's say it is 1024
We can use a pointer to point the memory location
1024 and using this pointer
we can read the temperature data and make decisions
accordingly
Like if the temperature is less than 37 degrees Celsius
we can say it's normal
And if it is about 37 we can say the
climate is very hot
So here the temperature sensed is 32 so we can
say current climate is normal Now
If it is 57 we can say it is very
hot climate now So that was just an example of
an embedded system
A temperature sensor. now in embedded systems we often need
to get the status of various peripheral devices like Led
Fan
Sensor etc.  and these peripheral devices will
take a fixed memory address to update their status and
using pointers we can effectively access those memory addresses
And that is how Pointers play a major role in
Embedded system programming
Next is pointers are memory efficient so let us see how
so Consider this code we have a structure declared
employee and in this structure we have declared three variables
A character array name and integer age and a
floating point variable weight
so the structure will occupy 4 bytes for name
four bytes for age and other four bytes for weight
So a total of 12 bytes of data now in
main function we have a function call and we pass
the structure variable to the function
Now it will copy all the values to the called
function. and in that function it will occupy another 12
bytes
So that is not a good approach
Now see this code, We have the same scenario
But instead of passing the structure variable, we pass the
pointer pointing to structure variable's memory address to the function
Now only the starting memory address is passed to the
function and that is how Pointers saves memory space and
improves efficiency
Next application of pointers is in dynamic memory allocation
So using pointers we can create, resize and delete
memory based on our need at run time
So the syntax to declare a pointer variable is this
datatype * pointer name so data type can
be can be int, char, float etc  and * indicates that the
variable is a pointer type
We can give a name for the pointer also
now see some examples We have int *ptr here
ptr A will point in integer variable next char*ptr
here ptr A will point to a character variable
next is float * ptr here Ptr can point a floating
point variable and next we have double * ptr here
ptr can point to a double variable
So that's all and thank you for watching this video